.TH tinyerp_server 1

.SH NAME
tinyerp_server \- Server for Tiny ERP 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tinyerp_server.py [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
TinyERP is an Enterprise Resource Planning and Customer Relationship
Management software package. It is developed to meet changing needs. 
The main functional features are: CRM and SRM, analytic and financial 
accounting, double-entry stock management, sales and purchases management, 
tasks automation, a help desk, marketing campaigns, and vertical modules 
for very specific businesses. Technical features include a distributed 
server, flexible workflows, an object database, a dynamic GUI, customizable 
reports, and a SOAP and XML-RPC interface.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this help message and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the program's version number and exit.

.TP
.B \-c \fIFILE\fB, \-\-config=\fIFILE\fB
Specify an alternate config file. By default, tinyerp server uses ~/.terp_serverrc

.TP
.B \-s, \-\-save
Save the configuration to ~/.terp_serverrc. By default, the options given on the command line are not saved.

.TP
.B \-p \fIPORT\fB, \-\-port=\fIPORT\fB
Specify the TCP port the server should use. By default, the server uses the port 8069.

.TP
.B \-\-interface=\fIINTERFACE\fB
Specify the network interface the server should be bound to. You probably want to set it to the IP address of the computer.
By default, the server is bound to 'localhost' and thus can only accept connections from clients on the same computer.

.TP
.B \-d \fIDATABASE\fB, --database=\fIDATABASE\fB
Specify the database name (default terp).

.TP
.B \-i \fIMODULE\fB, \-\-init=\fIMODULE\fB
Initialize a module (use "all" for all modules). 
\fBWarning:\fR this will erase the data concerning that module!

.TP
.B \-u \fIMODULE\fB, \-\-update=\fIMODULE\fB
Update a module (use "all" for all modules).

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose mode. 

.SH INTERNATIONALISATION OPTIONS

Use these options to translate Tiny ERP in another language. See the i18n
section of the user manual. Option '-l' is mandatory.

.TP 
.B \-l \fILANGUAGE\fB, --language=\fILANGUAGE\fB
Specify the language of the translation file. Use this option in 
combination with --i18n-export or --i18n-import.

.TP
.B \-\-i18n-export=\fIFILEPATH\fB
Export all sentences to be translated to \fIFILEPATH\fR.

.TP
.B \-\-i18n-import=\fIFILEPATH\fB
Import the CSV file at \fIFILEPATH\fR. It should contain the translations for the language specified with the \fI-l\fR option.

.SH FILES
~/.terp_serverrc

.SH AUTHORS

Tiny ERP is a product of \fBTiny.be\fR (\fIhttp://www.tiny.be\fR)

.SH SEE ALSO
terp_serverrc(5)
tinyerp(1)
.br
\fIhttp://www.tinyerp.com\fR : Tiny ERP functional description
.br
\fIhttp://www.tinyerp.org\fR : Tiny ERP developer zone


