README.md, before:

[![Build Status](http://runbot.odoo.com/runbot/badge/default/1/8.0.svg)](http://runbot.odoo.com/runbot)

Odoo
----

Odoo is a suite of web based open source business apps.  More info at http://www.odoo.com

The easiest way to play with it is the <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/start">Odoo free trial</a>, email registration is NOT required, use the "skip this step" link on the registration page to skip it.


Getting started with Odoo development
--------------------------------------

If you are a developer type the following command at your terminal [1]:

    wget -O- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/odoo/odoo/master/odoo.py | python

Then follow <a href="https://doc.openerp.com/trunk/server/howto/howto_website/">the developer tutorial</a>

[1] You may want to check the content of the <a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/odoo/odoo/master/odoo.py">odoo.py file</a> before executing it.


Packages, tarballs and installers
---------------------------------

* Debian packages

    Add this apt repository to your /etc/apt/sources.list file

        deb http://nightly.openerp.com/8.0/deb/ ./

    Then type:

        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install odoo

* <a href="http://nightly.openerp.com/">Source tarballs</a>

* <a href="http://nightly.openerp.com/">Windows installer</a>

* <a href="http://nightly.openerp.com/">RPM package</a>


For Odoo employees
------------------

To add the odoo-dev remote use this command:

    $ ./odoo.py setup_git_dev

To fetch odoo merge pull requests refs use this command:

    $ ./odoo.py setup_git_review

Commit message:

Conflicts: 	addons/website/controllers/main.py 	addons/website/data/demo.xml 	addons/website/models/ir_http.py 	addons/website/models/ir_ui_view.py 	addons/website/models/website.py 	addons/website/views/website_templates.xml 	addons/website/views/website_views.xml 	openerp/tools/convert.py

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](http://runbot.odoo.com/runbot/badge/default/1/master.svg)](http://runbot.odoo.com/runbot)

Odoo
----

Odoo is a suite of web based open source business apps.

It's main apps include an <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/crm">Open Source CRM</a>, <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/website-builder">Website Builder</a>, <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/e-commerce">eCommerce</a>, <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/project-management">Project Management</a>, <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/accounting">Billing & Accounting</a>, <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/point-of-sale">Point of Sale</a>, <a href="https://www.odoo.com/page/employees">Human Resources</a>, Marketing, Manufacturing, Purchase Management, ...  Each application is standalone but you get a full featured <a href="https://www.odoo.com">Open Source ERP</a> if you install several apps as they integrate to each others.


Getting started with Odoo development
--------------------------------------

If you are a developer type the following command at your terminal:

    wget -O- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/odoo/odoo/master/odoo.py | python

Then follow <a href="https://doc.openerp.com/trunk/server/howto/howto_website/">the developer tutorial</a>



Packages, tarballs and installers
---------------------------------

* Debian packages

    Add this apt repository to your /etc/apt/sources.list file

        deb http://nightly.odoo.com/master/nightly/deb/ ./

    Then type:

        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install odoo

* <a href="http://nightly.odoo.com/">Source tarballs</a>

* <a href="http://nightly.odoo.com/">Windows installer</a>

* <a href="http://nightly.odoo.com/">RPM package</a>


For Odoo employees
------------------

To add the odoo-dev remote use this command:

    $ ./odoo.py setup_git_dev

To fetch odoo merge pull requests refs use this command:

    $ ./odoo.py setup_git_review
