doc/list-view.rst, before:

List View
=========

Style Hooks
-----------

The list view provides a few style hook classes for re-styling of list views in
various situations:

``.oe_list``

    The root element of the list view, styling rules should be rooted
    on that class.

``table.oe_list_content``

    The root table for the listview, accessory components may be
    generated or added outside this section, this is the list view
    "proper".

``.oe_list_buttons``

    The action buttons array for the list view, with its sub-elements

    ``.oe_list_add``

        The default "Create"/"Add" button of the list view

    ``.oe_alternative``

        The "alternative choice" for the list view, by default text
        along the lines of "or import" with a link.

``.oe_list_field_cell``

    The cell (``td``) for a given field of the list view, cells which
    are *not* fields (e.g. name of a group, or number of items in a
    group) will not have this class. The field cell can be further
    specified:

    ``.oe_number``

        Numeric cell types (integer and float)

    ``.oe_button``

        Action button (``button`` tag in the view) inside the cell

    ``.oe_readonly``

        Readonly field cell

    ``.oe_list_field_$type``

        Additional class for the precise type of the cell, ``$type``
        is the field's @widget if there is one, otherwise it's the
        field's type.

``.oe_list_record_selector``

    Selector cells

Editable list view
++++++++++++++++++

The editable list view module adds a few supplementary style hook
classes, for edition situations:

``.oe_editing``

    Added to both ``.oe_list`` and ``.oe_list_button`` (as the
    buttons may be outside of the list view) when a row of the list is
    currently being edited.

``tr.oe_edition``

    Class set on the row being edited itself. Note that the edition
    form is *not* contained within the row, this allows for styling or
    modifying the row while it's being edited separately. Mostly for
    fields which can not be edited (e.g. read-only fields).


Editable list view
------------------

List view edition is an extension to the base listview providing the
capability of inline record edition by delegating to an embedded form
view.

.. todo::

    cleanup options and settings for editability configuration. Right
    now there are:

    ``defaults.editable``

        ``null``, ``"top"`` or ``"bottom"``, generally broken and
        useless

    ``context.set_editable``

        forces ``options.editable`` to ``"bottom"``

    ``view.arch.attrs.editable``

        same as ``defaults.editable``, but applied separately (after
        reloading the view), if absent delegates to
        ``options.editable`` which may have been set previously.

    ``options.read_only``

        force options.editable to false, or something?

        .. note:: can probably be replaced by cancelling ``edit:before``

    and :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.set_editable` which
    ultimately behaves weird-as-fuck-ly.

The editable list view module adds a number of methods to the list
view, on top of implementing the :js:class:`EditorDelegate` protocol:

Interaction Methods
+++++++++++++++++++

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.ensure_saved

    Attempts to resolve the pending edition, if any, by saving the
    edited row's current state.

    :returns: delegate resolving to all editions having been saved, or
              rejected if a pending edition could not be saved
              (e.g. validation failure)

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.start_edition([record])

    Starts editing the provided record inline, through an overlay form
    view of editable fields in the record.

    If no record is provided, creates a new one according to the
    editability configuration of the list view.

    This method resolves any pending edition when invoked, before
    starting a new edition.

    :type record: :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Record`
    :returns: delegate to the form used for the edition

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.save_edition

    Resolves the pending edition.

    :returns: delegate to the save being completed, resolves to an
              object with two attributes ``created`` (flag indicating
              whether the saved record was just created or was
              updated) and ``record`` the reloaded record having been
              edited.

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.cancel_edition

    Cancels pending edition, cleans up the list view in case of
    creation (removes the empty record being created).

Utility Methods
+++++++++++++++

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.get_cells_for(row)

    Extracts the cells from a listview row, and puts them in a
    {fieldname: cell} mapping for analysis and manipulation.

    :param jQuery row:
    :rtype: Object

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.with_event(event_name, event, action[, args][, trigger_params])

    Executes ``action`` in the context of the view's editor,
    bracketing it with cancellable event signals.

    :param String event_name: base name for the bracketing event, will
                              be postfixed by ``:before`` and
                              ``:after`` before being called
                              (respectively before and after
                              ``action`` is executed)
    :param Object event: object passed to the ``:before`` event
                         handlers.
    :param Function action: function called with the view's editor as
                            its ``this``. May return a deferred.
    :param Array args: arguments passed to ``action``
    :param Array trigger_params: arguments passed to the ``:after``
                                 event handler alongside the results
                                 of ``action``

Behavioral Customizations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.handle_onwrite(record)

    Implements the handling of the ``onwrite`` listview attribute:
    calls the RPC methods specified by ``@onwrite``, and if that
    method returns an array of ids loads or reloads the records
    corresponding to those ids.

    :param record: record being written having triggered the
                   ``onwrite`` callback
    :type record: openerp.web.list.Record
    :returns: deferred to all reloadings being done

Events
++++++

For simpler interactions by/with external users of the listview, the
view provides a number of dedicated events to its lifecycle.

.. note:: if an event is defined as *cancellable*, it means its first
          parameter is an object on which the ``cancel`` attribute can
          be set. If the ``cancel`` attribute is set, the view will
          abort its current behavior as soon as possible, and rollback
          any state modification.

``edit:before`` *cancellable*

    Invoked before the list view starts editing a record.

    Provided with an event object with a single property ``record``,
    holding the attributes of the record being edited (``record`` is
    empty *but not null* for a new record)

``edit:after``

    Invoked after the list view has gone into an edition state,
    provided with the attributes of the record being edited (see
    ``edit:before``) as first parameter and the form used for the
    edition as second parameter.

``save:before`` *cancellable*

    Invoked right before saving a pending edition, provided with an
    event object holding the listview's editor (``editor``) and the
    edition form (``form``)

``save:after``

    Invoked after a save has been completed

``cancel:before`` *cancellable*

    Invoked before cancelling a pending edition, provided with the
    same information as ``save:before``.

``cancel:after``

    Invoked after a pending edition has been cancelled.

DOM events
++++++++++

The list view has grown hooks for the ``keyup`` event on its edition
form (during edition): any such event bubbling out of the edition form
will be forwarded to a method ``keyup_EVENTNAME``, where ``EVENTNAME``
is the name of the key in ``$.ui.keyCode``.

The method will also get the event object (originally passed to the
``keyup`` handler) as its sole parameter.

The base editable list view has handlers for the ``ENTER`` and
``ESCAPE`` keys.

Editor
------

The list-edition modules does not generally interact with the embedded
formview, delegating instead to its
:js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor`.

.. js:class:: openerp.web.list.Editor(parent[, options])

    The editor object provides a more convenient interface to form
    views, and simplifies the usage of form views for semi-arbitrary
    edition of stuff.

    However, the editor does *not* task itself with being internally
    consistent at this point: calling
    e.g. :js:func:`~openerp.web.list.Editor.edit` multiple times in a
    row without saving or cancelling each edit is undefined.

    :param parent:
    :type parent: :js:class:`~openerp.web.Widget`
    :param EditorOptions options:

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.is_editing

        Indicates whether the editor is currently in the process of
        providing edition for a field.

        :rtype: Boolean

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.edit(record, configureField)

        Loads the provided record into the internal form view and
        displays the form view.

        Will also attempt to focus the first visible field of the form
        view.

        :param Object record: record to load into the form view
                              (key:value mapping similar to the result
                              of a ``read``)
        :param configureField: function called with each field of the
                               form view right after the form is
                               displayed, lets whoever called this
                               method do some last-minute
                               configuration of form fields.
        :type configureField: Function<String, openerp.web.form.Field>
        :returns: jQuery delegate to the form object

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.save

        Attempts to save the internal form, then hide it

        :returns: delegate to the record under edition (with ``id``
                  added for a creation). The record is not updated
                  from when it was passed in, aside from the ``id``
                  attribute.

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.cancel

        Attemps to cancel the edition of the internal form, then hide
        the form

        :returns: delegate to the record under edition

.. js:class:: EditorOptions

    .. js:attribute:: EditorOptions.formView

        Form view (sub)-class to instantiate and delegate edition to.

        By default, :js:class:`~openerp.web.FormView`

    .. js:attribute:: EditorOptions.delegate

        Object used to get various bits of information about how to
        display stuff.

        By default, uses the editor's parent widget. See
        :js:class:`EditorDelegate` for the methods and attributes to
        provide.

.. js:class:: EditorDelegate

    Informal protocol defining the methods and attributes expected of
    the :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor`'s delegate.

    .. js:attribute:: EditorDelegate.dataset

        The dataset passed to the form view to synchronize the form
        view and the outer widget.

    .. js:function:: EditorDelegate.edition_view(editor)

        Called by the :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor` object to
        get a form view (JSON) to pass along to the form view it
        created.

        The result should be a valid form view, see :doc:`Form Notes
        <form-notes>` for various peculiarities of the form view
        format.

        :param editor: editor object asking for the view
        :type editor: :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor`
        :returns: form view
        :rtype: Object

    .. js:function:: EditorDelegate.prepends_on_create

        By default, the :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor` will
        append the ids of newly created records to the
        :js:attr:`EditorDelegate.dataset`. If this method returns
        ``true``, it will prepend these ids instead.

        :returns: whether new records should be prepended to the
                  dataset (instead of appended)
        :rtype: Boolean

Changes from 6.1
----------------

* The editable listview behavior has been rewritten pretty much from
  scratch, any code touching on editability will have to be modified

  * The overloading of :js:class:`~openerp.web.ListView.Groups` and
    :js:class:`~openerp.web.ListView.List` for editability has been
    drastically simplified, and most of the behavior has been moved to
    the list view itself. Only
    :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.List.row_clicked` is still
    overridden.

  * A new method ``get_row_for(record) -> jQuery(tr) | null`` has been
    added to both ListView.List and ListView.Group, it can be called
    from the list view to get the table row matching a record (if such
    a row exists).

* :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.do_button_action`'s core behavior
  has been split away to
  :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.handle_button`. This allows bypassing
  overrides of :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.do_button_action` in a
  parent class.

  Ideally, :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.handle_button` should not be
  overridden.

* Modifiers handling has been improved (all modifiers information
  should now be available through :js:func:`~Column.modifiers_for`,
  not just ``invisible``)

* Changed some handling of the list view's record: a record may now
  have no id, and the listview will handle that correctly (for new
  records being created) as well as correctly handle the ``id`` being
  set.

* Extended the internal collections structure of the list view with
  `#find`_, `#succ`_ and `#pred`_.

.. _#find: http://underscorejs.org/#find

.. _#succ: http://hackage.haskell.org/packages/archive/base/latest/doc/html/Prelude.html#v:succ

.. _#pred: http://hackage.haskell.org/packages/archive/base/latest/doc/html/Prelude.html#v:pred

Commit message:

[IMP] add ability to change row using up/down key while editing list
* Allow asserting state of record being edited (creating or modifying) through Editor#is_editing
* Improve setup_events to also dispatch keydown events

bzr revid: xmo@openerp.com-20120718124359-q0udajwbuhzpqjmi

doc/list-view.rst, after:

List View
=========

Style Hooks
-----------

The list view provides a few style hook classes for re-styling of list views in
various situations:

``.oe_list``

    The root element of the list view, styling rules should be rooted
    on that class.

``table.oe_list_content``

    The root table for the listview, accessory components may be
    generated or added outside this section, this is the list view
    "proper".

``.oe_list_buttons``

    The action buttons array for the list view, with its sub-elements

    ``.oe_list_add``

        The default "Create"/"Add" button of the list view

    ``.oe_alternative``

        The "alternative choice" for the list view, by default text
        along the lines of "or import" with a link.

``.oe_list_field_cell``

    The cell (``td``) for a given field of the list view, cells which
    are *not* fields (e.g. name of a group, or number of items in a
    group) will not have this class. The field cell can be further
    specified:

    ``.oe_number``

        Numeric cell types (integer and float)

    ``.oe_button``

        Action button (``button`` tag in the view) inside the cell

    ``.oe_readonly``

        Readonly field cell

    ``.oe_list_field_$type``

        Additional class for the precise type of the cell, ``$type``
        is the field's @widget if there is one, otherwise it's the
        field's type.

``.oe_list_record_selector``

    Selector cells

Editable list view
++++++++++++++++++

The editable list view module adds a few supplementary style hook
classes, for edition situations:

``.oe_editing``

    Added to both ``.oe_list`` and ``.oe_list_button`` (as the
    buttons may be outside of the list view) when a row of the list is
    currently being edited.

``tr.oe_edition``

    Class set on the row being edited itself. Note that the edition
    form is *not* contained within the row, this allows for styling or
    modifying the row while it's being edited separately. Mostly for
    fields which can not be edited (e.g. read-only fields).


Editable list view
------------------

List view edition is an extension to the base listview providing the
capability of inline record edition by delegating to an embedded form
view.

.. todo::

    cleanup options and settings for editability configuration. Right
    now there are:

    ``defaults.editable``

        ``null``, ``"top"`` or ``"bottom"``, generally broken and
        useless

    ``context.set_editable``

        forces ``options.editable`` to ``"bottom"``

    ``view.arch.attrs.editable``

        same as ``defaults.editable``, but applied separately (after
        reloading the view), if absent delegates to
        ``options.editable`` which may have been set previously.

    ``options.read_only``

        force options.editable to false, or something?

        .. note:: can probably be replaced by cancelling ``edit:before``

    and :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.set_editable` which
    ultimately behaves weird-as-fuck-ly.

The editable list view module adds a number of methods to the list
view, on top of implementing the :js:class:`EditorDelegate` protocol:

Interaction Methods
+++++++++++++++++++

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.ensure_saved

    Attempts to resolve the pending edition, if any, by saving the
    edited row's current state.

    :returns: delegate resolving to all editions having been saved, or
              rejected if a pending edition could not be saved
              (e.g. validation failure)

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.start_edition([record])

    Starts editing the provided record inline, through an overlay form
    view of editable fields in the record.

    If no record is provided, creates a new one according to the
    editability configuration of the list view.

    This method resolves any pending edition when invoked, before
    starting a new edition.

    :type record: :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Record`
    :returns: delegate to the form used for the edition

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.save_edition

    Resolves the pending edition.

    :returns: delegate to the save being completed, resolves to an
              object with two attributes ``created`` (flag indicating
              whether the saved record was just created or was
              updated) and ``record`` the reloaded record having been
              edited.

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.cancel_edition

    Cancels pending edition, cleans up the list view in case of
    creation (removes the empty record being created).

Utility Methods
+++++++++++++++

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.get_cells_for(row)

    Extracts the cells from a listview row, and puts them in a
    {fieldname: cell} mapping for analysis and manipulation.

    :param jQuery row:
    :rtype: Object

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.with_event(event_name, event, action[, args][, trigger_params])

    Executes ``action`` in the context of the view's editor,
    bracketing it with cancellable event signals.

    :param String event_name: base name for the bracketing event, will
                              be postfixed by ``:before`` and
                              ``:after`` before being called
                              (respectively before and after
                              ``action`` is executed)
    :param Object event: object passed to the ``:before`` event
                         handlers.
    :param Function action: function called with the view's editor as
                            its ``this``. May return a deferred.
    :param Array args: arguments passed to ``action``
    :param Array trigger_params: arguments passed to the ``:after``
                                 event handler alongside the results
                                 of ``action``

Behavioral Customizations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. js:function:: openerp.web.ListView.handle_onwrite(record)

    Implements the handling of the ``onwrite`` listview attribute:
    calls the RPC methods specified by ``@onwrite``, and if that
    method returns an array of ids loads or reloads the records
    corresponding to those ids.

    :param record: record being written having triggered the
                   ``onwrite`` callback
    :type record: openerp.web.list.Record
    :returns: deferred to all reloadings being done

Events
++++++

For simpler interactions by/with external users of the listview, the
view provides a number of dedicated events to its lifecycle.

.. note:: if an event is defined as *cancellable*, it means its first
          parameter is an object on which the ``cancel`` attribute can
          be set. If the ``cancel`` attribute is set, the view will
          abort its current behavior as soon as possible, and rollback
          any state modification.

``edit:before`` *cancellable*

    Invoked before the list view starts editing a record.

    Provided with an event object with a single property ``record``,
    holding the attributes of the record being edited (``record`` is
    empty *but not null* for a new record)

``edit:after``

    Invoked after the list view has gone into an edition state,
    provided with the attributes of the record being edited (see
    ``edit:before``) as first parameter and the form used for the
    edition as second parameter.

``save:before`` *cancellable*

    Invoked right before saving a pending edition, provided with an
    event object holding the listview's editor (``editor``) and the
    edition form (``form``)

``save:after``

    Invoked after a save has been completed

``cancel:before`` *cancellable*

    Invoked before cancelling a pending edition, provided with the
    same information as ``save:before``.

``cancel:after``

    Invoked after a pending edition has been cancelled.

DOM events
++++++++++

The list view has grown hooks for the ``keyup`` event on its edition
form (during edition): any such event bubbling out of the edition form
will be forwarded to a method ``keyup_EVENTNAME``, where ``EVENTNAME``
is the name of the key in ``$.ui.keyCode``.

The method will also get the event object (originally passed to the
``keyup`` handler) as its sole parameter.

The base editable list view has handlers for the ``ENTER`` and
``ESCAPE`` keys.

Editor
------

The list-edition modules does not generally interact with the embedded
formview, delegating instead to its
:js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor`.

.. js:class:: openerp.web.list.Editor(parent[, options])

    The editor object provides a more convenient interface to form
    views, and simplifies the usage of form views for semi-arbitrary
    edition of stuff.

    However, the editor does *not* task itself with being internally
    consistent at this point: calling
    e.g. :js:func:`~openerp.web.list.Editor.edit` multiple times in a
    row without saving or cancelling each edit is undefined.

    :param parent:
    :type parent: :js:class:`~openerp.web.Widget`
    :param EditorOptions options:

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.is_editing([record_state])

        Indicates whether the editor is currently in the process of
        providing edition for a record.

        Can be filtered by the state of the record being edited
        (whether it's a record being *created* or a record being
        *altered*), in which case it asserts both that an edition is
        underway and that the record being edited respectively does
        not yet exist in the database or already exists there.

        :param record_state: state of the record being edited.
                             Either ``"new"`` or ``"edit"``.
        :type record_state: String
        :rtype: Boolean

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.edit(record, configureField)

        Loads the provided record into the internal form view and
        displays the form view.

        Will also attempt to focus the first visible field of the form
        view.

        :param Object record: record to load into the form view
                              (key:value mapping similar to the result
                              of a ``read``)
        :param configureField: function called with each field of the
                               form view right after the form is
                               displayed, lets whoever called this
                               method do some last-minute
                               configuration of form fields.
        :type configureField: Function<String, openerp.web.form.Field>
        :returns: jQuery delegate to the form object

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.save

        Attempts to save the internal form, then hide it

        :returns: delegate to the record under edition (with ``id``
                  added for a creation). The record is not updated
                  from when it was passed in, aside from the ``id``
                  attribute.

    .. js:function:: openerp.web.list.Editor.cancel

        Attemps to cancel the edition of the internal form, then hide
        the form

        :returns: delegate to the record under edition

.. js:class:: EditorOptions

    .. js:attribute:: EditorOptions.formView

        Form view (sub)-class to instantiate and delegate edition to.

        By default, :js:class:`~openerp.web.FormView`

    .. js:attribute:: EditorOptions.delegate

        Object used to get various bits of information about how to
        display stuff.

        By default, uses the editor's parent widget. See
        :js:class:`EditorDelegate` for the methods and attributes to
        provide.

.. js:class:: EditorDelegate

    Informal protocol defining the methods and attributes expected of
    the :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor`'s delegate.

    .. js:attribute:: EditorDelegate.dataset

        The dataset passed to the form view to synchronize the form
        view and the outer widget.

    .. js:function:: EditorDelegate.edition_view(editor)

        Called by the :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor` object to
        get a form view (JSON) to pass along to the form view it
        created.

        The result should be a valid form view, see :doc:`Form Notes
        <form-notes>` for various peculiarities of the form view
        format.

        :param editor: editor object asking for the view
        :type editor: :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor`
        :returns: form view
        :rtype: Object

    .. js:function:: EditorDelegate.prepends_on_create

        By default, the :js:class:`~openerp.web.list.Editor` will
        append the ids of newly created records to the
        :js:attr:`EditorDelegate.dataset`. If this method returns
        ``true``, it will prepend these ids instead.

        :returns: whether new records should be prepended to the
                  dataset (instead of appended)
        :rtype: Boolean

Changes from 6.1
----------------

* The editable listview behavior has been rewritten pretty much from
  scratch, any code touching on editability will have to be modified

  * The overloading of :js:class:`~openerp.web.ListView.Groups` and
    :js:class:`~openerp.web.ListView.List` for editability has been
    drastically simplified, and most of the behavior has been moved to
    the list view itself. Only
    :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.List.row_clicked` is still
    overridden.

  * A new method ``get_row_for(record) -> jQuery(tr) | null`` has been
    added to both ListView.List and ListView.Group, it can be called
    from the list view to get the table row matching a record (if such
    a row exists).

* :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.do_button_action`'s core behavior
  has been split away to
  :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.handle_button`. This allows bypassing
  overrides of :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.do_button_action` in a
  parent class.

  Ideally, :js:func:`~openerp.web.ListView.handle_button` should not be
  overridden.

* Modifiers handling has been improved (all modifiers information
  should now be available through :js:func:`~Column.modifiers_for`,
  not just ``invisible``)

* Changed some handling of the list view's record: a record may now
  have no id, and the listview will handle that correctly (for new
  records being created) as well as correctly handle the ``id`` being
  set.

* Extended the internal collections structure of the list view with
  `#find`_, `#succ`_ and `#pred`_.

.. _#find: http://underscorejs.org/#find

.. _#succ: http://hackage.haskell.org/packages/archive/base/latest/doc/html/Prelude.html#v:succ

.. _#pred: http://hackage.haskell.org/packages/archive/base/latest/doc/html/Prelude.html#v:pred
