doc/core/cmdline.rst, before:

.. _core/cmdline:

===============================
Command-line interface: oodo.py
===============================

.. _core/cmdline/server:

Running the server
==================

.. program:: odoo.py

.. option:: -d <database>, --database=<database>

    database used when installing or updating modules.

.. option:: -i <modules>, --init=<modules>

    comma-separated list of modules to :ref:`install
    <core/module/lifecycle/install>` before running the server.

.. option:: -u <modules>, --update=<modules>

    comma-separated list of modules to :ref:`update
    <core/module/lifecycle/update>` before running the server.

.. option:: --addons-path <directories>

    comma-separated list of directories in which modules are stored. These
    directories are scanned for modules (nb: when and why?)

.. _core/cmdline/scaffold:

Scaffolding
===========

.. program:: odoo.py scaffold

Scaffolding is the automated creation of a skeleton structure to simplify
bootstrapping (of new modules, in the case of Odoo). While not necessary it
avoids the tedium of setting up basic structures and looking up what all
starting requirements are.

.. option:: -t <template>

    a template directory, files are passed through jinja2_ then copied to
    the :option:`destination` directory

.. option:: name

    the name of the module to create, may munged in various manners to
    generate programmatic names (e.g. module directory name, model names, …)

.. option:: destination

    directory in which to create the new module, defaults to the current
    directory

.. _jinja2: http://jinja.pocoo.org

Commit message:

[IMP] move solution code things to patchqueue
There's plenty which is not correct in the solutions (because not really
tested & tried yet) and managing that by hand is a pain in the ass and files
are completely incoherent from one step to the next.

Also some theme improvements & stuff

doc/core/cmdline.rst, after:

.. _core/cmdline:

===============================
Command-line interface: oodo.py
===============================

.. _core/cmdline/server:

Running the server
==================

.. program:: odoo.py

.. option:: -d <database>, --database=<database>

    database used when installing or updating modules.

.. option:: -i <modules>, --init=<modules>

    comma-separated list of modules to :ref:`install
    <core/module/lifecycle/install>` before running the server.

.. option:: -u <modules>, --update=<modules>

    comma-separated list of modules to :ref:`update
    <core/module/lifecycle/update>` before running the server.

.. option:: --addons-path <directories>

    comma-separated list of directories in which modules are stored. These
    directories are scanned for modules (nb: when and why?)

.. option:: -c <config>, --config <config>

    provide an alternate configuration file

.. option:: -s, --save

    saves the server configuration to the current configuration file
    (:file:`{$HOME}/.openerp_serverrc` by default, overridable using
    :option:`-c`)

.. _core/cmdline/scaffold:

Scaffolding
===========

.. program:: odoo.py scaffold

Scaffolding is the automated creation of a skeleton structure to simplify
bootstrapping (of new modules, in the case of Odoo). While not necessary it
avoids the tedium of setting up basic structures and looking up what all
starting requirements are.

Scaffolding is available via the :command:`odoo.py scaffold` subcommand.

.. option:: -t <template>

    a template directory, files are passed through jinja2_ then copied to
    the :option:`destination` directory

.. option:: name

    the name of the module to create, may munged in various manners to
    generate programmatic names (e.g. module directory name, model names, …)

.. option:: destination

    directory in which to create the new module, defaults to the current
    directory

.. _core/cmdline/config:

Configuration file
==================

Most of the command-line options can also be specified via a configuration
file.

The default configuration file is :file:`{$HOME}/.openerp_serverrc` which
can be overridden using :option:`--config <odoo.py -c>`. Specifying
:option:`--save <odoo.py -s>` will save the current configuration state back
to that file.

.. _jinja2: http://jinja.pocoo.org
